Proptest-derive book (#104)
AltSysrq/proptest: book/src/proptest-derive/errors.md

construct an instance of struct `Uninhabited`.

Proptest's ability to identify uninhabited types is limited. If it does not
recognise a particular type, it will attempt to use it like any other type and
you will instead get an error about the type not implementing `Arbitrary`
trait.

## E0004

This error occurs when `#[derive(Arbitrary)]` is used on an enum with no
variants at all. For example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
enum Uninhabited { }
```

Such an enum has no values at all, so it does not make sense to provide an
`Arbitrary` implementation for it.

## E0005

This error occurs if `#[derive(Arbitrary)]` is used on an enum whose variants
are all uninhabited, using the same logic as described for [`E0003`](#e0003).
As a result, the enum itself is totally uninhabited.

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
enum Uninhabited {
    V1(!),
    V2(!, !),
}
```

## E0006

This error occurs if `#[derive(Arbitrary)]` is used on an enum where all
inhabited variants are marked with `#[proptest(skip)]`. In other words,
proptest is forbidden from generating any of the enum's variants, and thus the

> enum itself is unconstructable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enum itself cannot be generated.
```

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
enum MyEnum {
    // Ordinarily, proptest would be able to generate either of these variants,
    // but both are forbidden, so in the end proptest isn't allowed to generate
    // anything at all.
    #[proptest(skip)]
    V1,
    #[proptest(skip)]
    V2(u32),
    // This variant is implicitly skipped because proptest knows it is
    // uninhabited.
    V3(!),
}
```

## E0007

This error happens if an attribute `#[proptest(strategy = "expr")]` or
`#[proptest(value = "expr")]` is applied to an item such as an enum or struct.

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
#[proptest(value = "MyStruct(42)")]
struct MyStruct(u32);
```

> These attributes are only applicable to fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These attributes are only applicable to fields and enum variants.
```

## E0008

This error happens if `#[proptest(skip)]` is applied to an unskippable item.
For example, struct fields cannot be skipped because Rust requires every field
of a struct to have a value.

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct WidgetContainer {
    desired_widget_count: usize,
    #[proptest(skip)]
    widgets: Vec<Widget>,
}
```

In general, the appropriate way to request proptest to not generate a field
value is to use `#[proptest(value = "expr")]` to provide a fixed value
yourself. For example, the above code could be properly written as follows:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct WidgetContainer {
    desired_widget_count: usize,
    #[proptest(value = "vec![]")] // Always generate an empty widget vec
    widgets: Vec<Widget>,
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The only things that can be skipped are enum variants. For example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
enum Foo {
    NormalVariant(u8),
    #[proptest(skip)]
    MySpecialVariant(String),
}
```

You'll need to add ``` to this because GitHub won't let me add them...

Author: This seems a bit extraneous; it's not relevant to the user's problem because they're clearly not working with an enum, and switching to using an enum is not a sensible solution.

Reviewer: Hmm; I suppose -- but showing what the attribute is used for is nice, so maybe link to other parts of the book (once written) that shows the use of the attribute?

Author: Yeah, that sounds like a good plan to me.

## E0009

This error happens if `#[proptest(weight = <integer>)]` is applied to an item
where this does not make sense, such as a struct field. For example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct Foo {
    a: u32,
    #[proptest(weight = 42)]
    b: u32,
}
```

The `weight` attribute only is sensible where proptest has a choice between

> multiple items, such as enum variants. In contrast, with struct fields proptest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multiple items, that is: enum variants. In contrast, with struct fields proptest
```

"such as" suggests that there may be more but it enum variants is the only thing literally.

}
```

If the parent item has any explicit parameter configuration, it totally defines
the parameters for the whole `Arbitrary` implementation and the child items
must work with that and cannot specify their own parameters.

## E0011

This error occurs if `#[proptest(params = "type")]` is set on a field but no
explicit strategy is configured with `#[proptest(strategy = "expr")]`. For
example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct Foo {
    #[proptest(param = "u8")]
    some_string: String,
}
```

This example illustrates why both must be specified: `String`'s arbitrary
implementation takes a `proptest::string::StringParam`, but here we try to pass
it a `u8`.

While the generated code could work if the type given by `param` is the same as
that for the default strategy, there would be no purpose in specifying the
parameter type by hand; therefore specifying only `param` is in all cases
forbidden.

## E0012

This error occurs if `#[proptest(filter = "expr")]` is set on an item, but the
item containing it specifies a direct way to generate the whole value, which
would thus occur without consulting the filter.

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
enum Foo {

>     #[proptest(value = "Foo::V1(42)")]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    #[proptest(value = "Foo::Bar(42)")]
```

It would be nice to have some "funner" names... `Bar` isn't that much better, but well, it fits :)

Author: I've applied this to most of the examples.

Reviewer: Yeah; really like the improvements!

>     V1 {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Bar {
```

        #[proptest(filter = "is_even")]
        field: u32,
    },
    // ...
}
```

> In this example, the entire `V1` variant specifies how to generate itself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the entire `Bar` variant specifies how to generate itself
```

wholesale. As a result, the `filter` clause on `field` has no opportunity to
run.

## E0013

This error would occur if an outer attribute of the form `#![proptest(..)]`
were applied to something underneath a `#[derive(Arbitrary)]`.

As of Rust 1.30.0, there are no known ways to produce this error since the Rust
compiler will reject the attribute first.

## E0014

> This error occurs if a bare `#[proptest]` attribute is applied to anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error occurs if a bare `#[proptest]` attribute is applied to anything,
since it has no meaningful content.
```

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct Foo {
    #[proptest]
    field: u8,
}
```

The only legal use of the attribute is the form `#[proptest(..)]`.

## E0015

> This error occurs if an attribute of the form `#[proptest = value]` is

Reviewer: Aside: I've wondered if we should give this attribute form meaning...
Maybe it should be synonymous with `#[proptest(strategy = expr)]` but that is perhaps not super clear;
On enum variants, I would also expect this to be for weights...

Author: That syntax would feel unclear to me. Let's keep it explicit for now, we can always add some meaning to it later.

Reviewer: Yeah I agree 👍

#[proptest(no_params, params = "u8")]
struct Foo(u32);
```

One attribute or the other must be picked depending on desired effect.

## E0023

This error happens if an invalid `#[proptest(params = "type")]` attribute is
applied to an item.

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
#[proptest(params = "Vec<u8")] // Note missing '>'
struct Foo(u32);
```

There are a few different ways to get this error:

- Pass nothing at all. E.g., `#[proptest(params)]`.

- Pass something other than a string as the value. E.g.,
  `#[proptest(params = 42)]`.

- Pass a malformed type in the string, as in the example above. Note that type
  syntax is limited to what the `syn` crate can understand. If you encounter a
  valid type that is rejected here, you can work around it by defining a type
  alias (e.g., `type MyParams = TypeThatSynCantParse;`). In such a case, please
  consider [filing an issue](https://github.com/altsysrq/proptest/issues) as
  well.

## E0024

This error happens if an invalid `#[proptest ..]` attribute is applied using a
syntax the `proptest-derive` crate is not prepared to handle.

Exactly what conditions can produce this error vary by Rust version.

## E0025

> This error happens if both `#[proptest(strategy = "expr")]` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error happens if more than one of `#[proptest(strategy = "expr")]`,
```

> `#[proptest(value = "expr")]` are applied to the same item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`#[proptest(value = "expr")]`, or `#[proptest(regex = "string")]` are applied to the same item.
```

I'm assuming we land https://github.com/AltSysrq/proptest/pull/103 here. :)

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct Foo {

>     #[proptest(value = "42", strategy = "Just(56)")]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    #[proptest(value = "42", strategy = "Foo { bar: 56 }")]
```

Author: How is `Foo { bar: 56 }` a valid argument for `strategy` here?

Reviewer: Ignore me; I was being silly here!

    bar: u32,
}
```

> Both of these modifiers completely describe how to generate the value, so they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any one of these modifiers completely describe how to generate the value, so not
```

> cannot both be applied to the same thing. One or the other must be chosen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more than one can be applied to the same thing. One or the other must be chosen
```

depending on the desired effect.

## E0026

> This error happens if an invalid form of `#[proptest(strategy ..)]` or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error happens if an invalid form of `#[proptest(strategy..)]` or
```

> `#[proptest(value..)]` is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`#[proptest(value ..)]` is used.
```

( pick only one of these suggestions... =P )

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct Foo {
    #[proptest(value = "3↑↑↑↑3")] // String content is not valid Rust syntax
    g1: u128,
}
```

There are a few different ways to get this error:

- Pass nothing at all. E.g., `#[proptest(value)]`.

- Use another illegal form. E.g., `#[proptest(value("a", "b"))]`.

- Pass a string expression which is not valid Rust syntax, as in the above

>   example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  example. As with E0023, what is valid Rust syntax is determined by the `syn` crate.
```

Author: I moved the discussion about workarounds to a separate section at the bottom that everything just links to.

Reviewer: Saw that; love it!

## E0027

This error happens if an invalid form of `#[proptest(filter..)]` is used.

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct Foo {
    #[proptest(filter = "> 3")] // String content does not name a function
    g1: u128,
}
```

There are a few different ways to get this error:

- Pass nothing at all. E.g., `#[proptest(filter)]`.

- Use another illegal form. E.g., `#[proptest(filter("a", "b"))]`.

- Pass a string expression which is not valid Rust syntax, as in the above

>   example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  example. As with E0023, what is valid Rust syntax is determined by the `syn` crate.
```

This error happens if a modifier which would constrain or control how the value
of a struct is to be generated is applied to a unit struct.

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
#[proptest(params = "u8")]
struct Foo;
```

Unit structs only have one possible value, so there is only one possible
strategy. As a result, it is pointless to try to specify an alternate strategy
or to filter such structs.

## E0031

This error occurs if `#[proptest(no_bound)]` is applied to something that is
not a type variable.

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct Foo {
    #[proptest(no_bound)]
    bar: u32,
}
```

The `no_bound` modifier only makes sense on generic type variables, as in

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct Foo<#[proptest(no_bound)] T> {
    #[proptest(value = "None")]
    bar: Option<T>,
}
```

## E0032

This error happens if `#[proptest(no_bound)]` is passed anything.

Example:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Arbitrary)]
struct Foo<#[proptest(no_bound = "yes")] T> {
    _bar: PhantomData<T>,
}
```

The only valid form for the modifier is `#[proptest(no_bound)]`.

## E0033

This error occurs if the sum of the weights on the variants of an enum overflow

> a `u32`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an `u32`.
```

Author: How do you pronounce it? I say "you thirty two" which definitely takes "a".

Reviewer: Interesting; I say it the same way so you are right here. :)
